#summary How 2 Install Eclipse
#labels Featured,Phase-Implementation

= Introduction =

It was a real pain trying to install all the plug-ins for Eclipse, so this should simplify the process. Please add to this page if you install other plug-ins for your code.

All of the text that appears in _italics_ indicates that it is exactly how the interface describes a button, link, etc.


= Instructions =

 # Download and install [http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/download.php?file=/technology/epp/downloads/release/galileo/SR1/eclipse-php-galileo-SR1-win32.zip Eclipse PHP]
  * I recommend downloading using [http://www.utorrent.com/ BitTorrent]. After downloading, unzip and place the eclipse folder wherever you choose.
 # Install the javaw path (using cmd.exe in Windows OS). You must be in the eclipse directory before running the command. In dos this means typing:
  cd %eclipse_path%
  * _%eclipse_path%_ is the absolute path to the eclipse directory. Once you are in the directory, enter the following instruction:
  eclipse -vm %javapath%\javaw.exe
  * _%javapath%_ could be something like _C:\jdk1.4.2\jre\bin_. I am running Windows Vista and it was installed to _C:\Windows\System32_. Just do a search if you can't find it.
  * Now Eclipse should open. Set up your workspace directory.
 # Download and install the [http://downloads.activestate.com/ActivePerl/ ActivePerl] for your OS (be sure to download v5.8.x, because it has a working PPM):
  * It does not matter where you install to, but you need the location of the executable later.
 # Install the EPIC plug-in for Eclipse.
  * In Eclipse, open the _Help_ menu and click _Install New Software..._.
  * Click _Add_ at the top right of the window.
  * Give the plug-in a name and enter _http://e-p-i-c.sf.net/updates/testing _as the location.
  * Select the check box next to _EPIC Main Components_.
  * Install the plug-in. Restart Eclipse when you are prompted to do so.
 # Install Perl into EPIC.
  * In Eclipse, open the _Window_ menu and click _Preferences_.
  * From the left menu, select _Perl EPIC_.
  * In the box labeled _Perl executable:_ enter the location of the Perl executable from Step 3.
  * For my installation it was _C:\Perl64\bin\perl.exe_.
  * Click OK to save these settings.
 # Install the Subclipse plug-in for Eclipse.
  * Follow the same instructions in from Step 4, but use _http://subclipse.tigris.org/update_1.6.x _as the _Location_
  * Select the check box next to _Subclipse_.
  * Install the plug-in. Restart Eclipse when you are prompted to do so.
 # Checkout from the repository.
  * In Eclipse, click _File_ and select _Import_.
  * Click _SVN_ and select _Checkout Projects from SVN_, and click _Next_.
  * Select _Create a new repository location_ and click _Next_.
  * Enter _https://databasesecuritytesting.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ _and click _Next_.
  * Select the project you want to open and click _Finish_.
  * When you are prompted for your username and password, enter your gmail username and the _googlecode_ password. This can be found by clicking _Source_ on this page, then clicking _googlecode.com password_ on that page.
 # Synchronize with repository.
  * Right-click your updated project.
  * Click _Team_ and select _Synchronize with Repository_.
 # Revert changes back to the repository version.
  * Right-click your updated project/file.
  * Click _Team_ and select _Revert..._.
  * Select the files you wish to revert to saved.
  * Click _OK_ to revert changes.
 # Commit a new project to the repository.
  * Right-click your new project
  * Click _Team_ and select _Share Project..._.
  * Select _SVN_ and click _Next_.
  * Select _Use existing repository location:_ and click _Next_.
  * Click _Finish_ to upload your new project.
 # Commit an updated project/file to the repository.
  * Right-click your updated project/file.
  * Click _Team_ and select _Commit_.
  * Enter a comment describing what you have updated.
  * Click _OK_ to commit changes.